
Python WebDAV implementation.

A working WebDAV Server is included in the PyDAVServer package. Feel free to
extend it to your needs. Please send suggestions and bugfixes to the author(s).

LICENSE
-------

see doc/LICENSE file


AUTHOR(s)
------

Simon Pamies (also current maintainer)
Bielefeld, Germany
s.pamies@banality.de

Christian Scholz
Aachen, Germany
mrtopf@webdav.de

Vince Spicer
Ontario, Canada
vince@vince.ca


REQUIREMENTS
------------

- Python 2.0  or higher (www.python.org)
- PyXML 0.66 (pyxml.sourceforge.net)

OPTIONAL
--------

- MySQLdb (http://sourceforge.net/projects/mysql-python)
	- Mysql server 4.0+ for Mysql authentication with
	  with read/write access to one database

INSTALLATION
------------

see doc/INSTALL file

What is WebDAV?
---------------

http://www.webdav.org.
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2518.txt

What is Python?
---------------

http://www.python.org.
http://diveintopython.org/

Contents
--------

Here is a little overview of the package:

A. In the DAV/ package:

    1. BufferingHTTPServer
       
       This is the same as the normal BasicHTTPServer but instead of
       directly sending each string over the network this implementation
       caches it and sends it at once after finishing one request.

       This has the advantage that clients like cadaver don't break as
       they want to peek at the next lines when encountering e.g. a header.

    2. AuthHTTPServer
       
       This works on top of either the BasicHTTPServer or the 
       BufferingHTTPServer and implements basic authentication.

    3. WebDAVServer
       This server uses AuthHTTPServer for the base functionality. It also uses
       a dav interface class for interfacing with the actual data storage (e.g.
       a filesystem or a database).

B. In the PyDAVServer directory:

    1. server.py
       Main file for server. Serves as a start point for the WebDAV server

    2. fshandler.py
       Backend for the DAV server. Makes him serving content from the filesystem.
       Have a deeper look at it if you want to implement backends to other data sources

    3. fileauth.py
       Handler for authentication. Nothing very special about it.

    4. dbconn.py
       Mysql Database Handler.

    5. INI_Parse.py
       Parses the config.ini file.

    6. config.ini
       PyWebDav configuration file.


NOTES
-----

Right now some parts are missing like handling of ALLPROP and PROPNAMES as 
the whole proppatch method. Also not everything is tested and the return 
codes might not be the right ones in every case.

I plan to adjust things in order to work with my groupware project which 
I then will release (actually it's my thesis I am working on). 

Look inside the file TODO for things which needs to be done and will be done 
in the near future. 

If you find bugs (many!) or have suggestions then please email the maintainer

Thanks :)


Windows Notes
-------------

This version can not be run under windows.

